Fundamentals - Image and Imaging, Part 3 - "Imaging everything" (#129)
johko/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/Unit 1 - Fundamentals/image_and_imaging/image.mdx

# Image

It might be weird that we are going to explain to you what an image is in a Computer Vision Course. Presumally, the reason that you got here in the first place was because you wanted to know more about how to process image and video format. It seems trivial, but you are in here for a surprise! When it comes to images, there are much more than it meets the eye (pun-intended).

## Definition of Image

> An image is a visual representation of an object, a scence, a person, or even a concept They can be photographs, paintings, drawings, schemes, scans and more! One the more suprising things is that an image is also a function. More precisely, an image is an n-dimensional function. We will first consider it to be two-dimensional $(n=2)$ first. We will call it $F(X, Y)$ , where $X$ and $Y$ are spatial coordinates. Do not get distracted by the fancy name. Spatial coordinates are just the system that we use to describe the positions of objects in a physical space with the most common one being the $2D$ cartesian system. The amplitude of $F$ at a pair of coordinates $(x_i, y_i)$ is the intensity or gray level of the image at that point. The intensity is what gives you the perception of light and dark. Typically, when we have the pair coordinate $x_1$ and $y_1$, we refer to them as pixels (picture elements).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An image is a visual representation of an object, a scene, a person, or even a concept. They can be photographs, paintings, drawings, schemes, scans and more! One of the more surprising things is that an image is also a function. More precisely, an image is an n-dimensional function. We will first consider it to be two-dimensional $(n=2)$. We will call it $F(X, Y)$ , where $X$ and $Y$ are spatial coordinates. Do not get distracted by the fancy name. Spatial coordinates are just the system that we use to describe the positions of objects in a physical space with the most common one being the $2D$ Cartesian system. The amplitude of $F$ at a pair of coordinates $(x_i, y_i)$ is the intensity or gray level of the image at that point. The intensity is what gives you the perception of light and dark. Typically, when we have the coordinate pair $x_1$ and $y_1$, we refer to them as pixels (picture elements).
```

Images are discrete, and the processes involved in assembling them are continuous. The image generation processes will be discussed in  the next chapter. Right now what matters is that the value of $F$ at specific coordinates holds a physical meaning. And that the function $F(X, Y)$ is characterized by two components: the amount of illumination from the source and the amount of illumination reflected by the object in the scene. Intensity images are also constrained in their intensity since the function is typically non-negative and their values are finite. 

> That is not the only way one can create an image.  Sometimes, they are created by computers with or without the help of AI.  We have dedicated chapter for images that do have a little helping hand from AI. Most of the terminology, we will introduce here will still be apply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is not the only way one can create an image.  Sometimes, they are created by computers with or without the help of AI.  We have a dedicated chapter for images that do have a little helping hand from AI. Most of the terminology we will introduce here will still be applicable.
```

Now that we have discussed space, we can talk about color. The good news is you have likely heard of image channels too. You might not understand what they mean but fear not! Image channels are simply the different color components that make an image. In reference to the $F(X,Y)$, this means we will have $F$ for each color component. Each color has its own intensity level. For a channel that picks up the color red, a high intesity means that the color is very red and a low intensity means that there is little to no red in there.

The most common color model is RGB (Red, Green, Blue). Three colors, three channels, three $F(X, Y)$. In this model, the true color of a coordinate $(x_i, y_i)$ is given by the combination of the three different F $(x_i, y_i)$ at that location. Combined, these three colors describe a wide spectrum of colors.

If you're only looking at the $F(x, y)$ for one color, it ranges from $0$ to $255$, where $0$ represents no intensity and $255$ represents maximum intensity. In a different color system, combining these values might differ. So, it is important to understand where your data comes from when interpretating these values.

> There are special types of images where the coordinates $x_i, y_i$ do not describe an intensity value, but instead label a pixel. The simplest example of an operation that results in such an image is separating foreground and background. Everything that is foreground receives the label $1$, and everything that is background receives the label $0$. These images are commonly referred to as labeled images. When the are only two labels, like our example, we call them binary images or masks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are special types of images where the coordinates $x_i, y_i$ do not describe an intensity value, but instead label a pixel. The simplest example of an operation that results in such an image is separating foreground and background. Everything that is foreground receives the label $1$, and everything that is background receives the label $0$. These images are commonly referred to as labeled images. When there are only two labels, like our example, we call them binary images or masks. 
```

If you've been tuned in,  you may have caught on to the idea that videos are a visual representation of images with a time component attached. For $2D$ image acquisition, you can add a time dimension such that $F(X, Y, T)$ becomes your imaging function. 

Images can naturally have a hidden component in time. They are, after all, taken at a specific point in time, and different images may be related in time too. However, images and videos differ in how they sample this temporal information. An image is a static representation at a single point in time. While a video is a sequence of images played at a rate that creates an illusion of motion. This rate is what we can call frames per second. 

This is so fundamental, that this course has a dedicated chapter to video. There, we will go over the adaptions required to deal with this added dimension.

### Images vs Tabular Data

In tabular data, dimensionality is usually defined by the number of features (columns) describing one data point. In visual data, dimensionality usually refers to the number of dimensions that describe your data. For a $2D$ image, we usually refer to numbers $x_i$ and $y_i$ as the image size.  

>  Another aspect is the generation of features that describe visual data are generated by traditional preprocessing or learned through deep learning methods. We refer to this as feature extraction. It involves different algorithms discussed in more detail in the feature extraction chapter. It contrasts with the feature engineering for tabular data, where new features are built upon existing ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Another aspect is the generation of features that describe visual data. They are generated by traditional preprocessing or learned through deep learning methods. We refer to this as feature extraction. It involves different algorithms discussed in more detail in the feature extraction chapter. It contrasts with the feature engineering for tabular data, where new features are built upon existing ones.
```

<!--

#TODO
how do I add equations to the .mdx?
working some schemes for definition of image
-->

## Definition of Image

> An image is a visual representation of something. An image is an n-dimensional function.Tipically, we consider it to be two-dimensional (n=2). Let us denote: F(X, Y), where X and Y are spatial coordinates. The amplitude of F at a pair of coordinates (x1, y1) is the intensity or gray level of the image at that point. Typically, when we have the pair coordinate x1 and y1, we refer to them as pixels (picture elements).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An image is a visual representation of something. An image is an n-dimensional function. Typically, we consider it to be two-dimensional (n=2). Let us denote F(X, Y), where X and Y are spatial coordinates. The amplitude of F at a pair of coordinates (x1, y1) is the intensity or gray level of the image at that point. When we have the pair coordinate x1 and y1, we refer to them as pixels (picture elements).
```

> Most of the images are generated by a combination of an illumination source and the reflection or absorption of energy. Images are discrete, the processes involved in assembling them are continuous. Image generating process will be discussed in greater detail in the following sections: technical aspects of imaging and how we imaged everything. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most of the images are generated by a combination of an illumination source and the reflection or absorption of energy. Images are discrete, and the processes involved in assembling them are continuous. The image generation process will be discussed in greater detail in the following sections: technical aspects of imaging and how we imaged everything. 
```

> What matters to us right now is that the value of F at specific coordinates holds a physical meaning. And that the function F(X, Y) is characterized by two components: the amount of illumination from the source and the amount of illumination reflected by the object in the scene. Intensity images are also constrained in their intensity since the function is typically non-negative and their values are finite. Sometimes when working with images we might come across images that have values smaller than zeros. This is sometimes done to signal to the algorithm not to look at that part of the image. You can think about it as sticker you put on old photograph with your ex in it. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What matters to us right now is that the value of F at specific coordinates holds a physical meaning. And that the function F(X, Y) is characterized by two components: the amount of illumination from the source and the amount of illumination reflected by the object in the scene. Intensity images are also constrained in their intensity since the function is typically non-negative, and their values are finite. Sometimes, when working with images, we might come across images with values smaller than zeros. This is sometimes done to signal the algorithm not to look at that part of the image. You can think about it as a sticker you put on an old photograph with your ex in it. 
```

> A different time of image is volumetric or 3D images images. 3D images have the number of dimensions is equal to three and as a result have an F(X, Y, Z). Most of our reason still applies, with the only difference being that the triplet x1, y1, z1 is called a voxel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A different type of image is volumetric or 3D images. 3D images have three dimensions. As a result, we have the image represented as F(X, Y, Z). Most of our reason still applies, with the only difference being that the triplet x1, y1, z1 is called a voxel.
```

> Sometime people will refer to different image channels. Fear not! Image channels are the different color components that make an image. In reference to the F(X,Y), this means we will have F for each color component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes, people will refer to different image channels. Fear not! Image channels are the different color components that make an image. In reference to the F(X,Y), we will have F for each color component.
```

> The most common color models is the RGB (Red, Green, Blue). Three colors, the channels, three F(X, Y). In this model, the true color of a coordinate (x, y) is given by the combination of the three different F(x,y) at that same location. Combined these three colors describe a wide spectrum of colors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most common color model is the RGB (Red, Green, Blue). Three colors, the channels, three F(X, Y). In this model, the true color of a coordinate (x, y) is given by combining the three different F(x,y) at that same location. Combining these three colors describes a wide spectrum of colors.
```

> If you only looking at the F(x, y) for one color, we called the gray level or the intensity.  The intensity values for each channel typically range from 0 to 255, where 0 represents no intensity and 255 represents maximum intensity. If you are in a different color system, these values might change so it is important to understand where your data come from. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you only look at the F(x, y) for one color, we call it the gray level or the intensity.  The intensity values for each channel typically range from 0 to 255, where 0 represents no intensity, and 255 represents maximum intensity. If you are in a different color system, these values might change, so it is important to understand where your data come from. 
```

On occasion, it is also possible to hear that people are working on 4D or 5D images/ this terminology is mostly used by people in the biomedical field and microscopists. Again fear not! This naming came to be from people that image volumetric data in time, different channels, or different imaging modalities (i.e. photo and an x-ray). The idea is that each new source of information becomes an extra dimension. 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> But how are they represented in the computer? Most commoly by matrices. It is easy to picture an image as a 2-D numerical array. This is an advantage because arrays are easy to deal with in computers. Apart from different performances in memory and reading, most different image formats end up in your script as a numpy array. Seeing matrices as images helps to understand some of the processes in convolution neural networks and an a image preprocessing, which we will see in latter chapters. For instace, aligning an image might be decompose into a mix of rotation and shearing operations much like the tipical linear algebra problem. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But how are they represented on the computer? Most commonly by matrices. It is easy to picture an image as a 2-D numerical array. This is an advantage because arrays are easy to deal with in computers. Apart from different performances in memory and reading, most different image formats end up in your script as a numpy array. Seeing matrices as images helps us understand some of the processes in convolution neural networks and image preprocessing, which we will see in later chapters. For instance, aligning an image might be decomposed into a mix of rotation and shearing operations, much like the typical linear algebra problem. 
```

> Alternatively, images might be represented as graphs where each edge is a coordinate and the edges are the neighboring coordinates. Take a moment to let that sink in, this means that the algorithms and models that are used for graphs can also be used for images. The inverse can also be true, you might be able to transform a graph into an image and analyze it as if it were a picture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, images might be represented as graphs where each edge is a coordinate, and the edges are the neighboring coordinates. Take a moment to let that sink in, this means that the algorithms and models used for graphs can also be used for images. The inverse can also be true, you might be able to transform a graph into an image and analyze it as if it were a picture.
```

As you can see, we propose a rather flexible definition of image that can accomodate to different ways to acquire visual data. 

<!--

#TODO
trying to check that our definition matches the one from the video team, I  posted on discord and I am waiting their reply
-->

## Difference between Image and Video

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> If you have been paying attention, you might be guessing the videos are a visual representation of images that have a component of time attached to them. For 2D image acquistion, you would can add a time component such that F(X, Y, T). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have been paying attention, you might guess the videos are a visual representation of images with a component of time attached to them. For 2D image acquisition, you can add a time component such that F(X, Y, T). 
```

> Images can naturally have a hidden component in time but images and videos differ in how they sample this temporal information. An image is a static representation of a scene captured at a single point in time. While a video is a

Reviewer 2: You can remove the newline since it breaks the text

| 3 | File types             | JPEG,PNG,RAW, etc.                              | MP4,AVI, MOV, etc.                                  |
| 4 | Data Augmentation	     | Flipping, rotating, cropping	                   | Temporal jittering, speed variations, occlusion     |
| 5 | Feature Extraction	    | Edges, textures, colors	                        | Edges, textures, colors, optical flow, trajectories |
| 6 | Learning Models	       | CNNs                                            | RNNs, 3D CNNs                                       |
| 7 | Machine Learning Tasks | Image classification, Segmentation, Object Detection              | Video action recognition, temporal modeling, tracking      |
| 8 | Computational Cost	    | Less expensive	                                 | More expensive                                      |
| 9 | Applications           | Facial recognition for security access control	 | Sign language interpretation for live communication |

We will discuss more about video specific tasks at the Video Chapter. 

<!--

#TODO
this part could be improved i.e. compare image to audio and more tabular data points
-->

## Images vs other forms of data

> In tabular data, dimensionality is usually defined by the number of features (columns) describing one data point. In data, dimensionality usually refer to the cardinality of your combined dimensions. Due to the spatial relation in the data each pixel contributes to add more dimensions to the data. Features that describe your image are usually generated by traditional preprocessing or learned throught deep learning methods. Thus feature extraction in an image involves different algorithms discussed in detail in the next chapter of this unit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In tabular data, dimensionality is usually defined by the number of features (columns) describing one data point. In data, dimensionality usually refers to the cardinality of your combined dimensions. Due to the spatial relation in the data, each pixel contributes to adding more dimensions to the data. Features that describe your image are usually generated by traditional preprocessing or learned through deep learning methods. Thus, feature extraction in an image involves different algorithms, which will be discussed in detail in the next chapter of this unit.
```
